labs/lab-0/README.md, before:

# Lab 0: Setting up local environment

## Goal

In this lab we will set up a local environment to run the workshop.

## Steps

### 1. Install Docker

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
- [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/)

### 2. Install kubectl

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [Mac](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/)
- [Linux](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
- [Windows](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-windows/)

### 3. Install Minikube

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [All systems](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)

### 4. Install Helm

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [Mac](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#from-homebrew-macos)
- [Linux](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#from-apt-debianubuntu)
- [Windows](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#from-chocolatey-windows)

### 5. Install cosign

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation

### 6. Create a Kubernetes cluster

Start Minikube:

```bash
minikube start
```

Verify that the cluster is running:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

### 7. Fork the workshop repository

Fork the workshop repository to your own GitHub account by clicking the "Fork" button in the top right corner of the repository page.

Go to your forked repository and enable GitHub Actions:

```
https://github.com/nais/<user>/actions
```

Clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:<user>/nais-workshop.git
```

### 8. Create a GitHub personal access token

Create a [new GitHub personal access
token](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new) with the following permissions:

- `write:packages`

Log in to GitHub Packages (ghcr.io) with your docker client:

```bash
echo "<token>" | docker login ghcr.io --username <user> --password-stdin
```

## Conclusion

You have now set up a local environment to run the workshop.

## Next

Proceed to [Lab 1](../lab-1/README.md) >

Commit message:

warning about uppercase names on docker imgs

labs/lab-0/README.md, after:

# Lab 0: Setting up local environment

## Goal

In this lab we will set up a local environment to run the workshop.

## Steps

### 1. Install Docker

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
- [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/)

### 2. Install kubectl

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [Mac](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/)
- [Linux](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
- [Windows](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-windows/)

### 3. Install Minikube

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [All systems](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)

### 4. Install Helm

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- [Mac](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#from-homebrew-macos)
- [Linux](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#from-apt-debianubuntu)
- [Windows](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#from-chocolatey-windows)

### 5. Install cosign

Follow the instructions for your operating system:

- https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation

### 6. Create a Kubernetes cluster

Start Minikube:

```bash
minikube start
```

Verify that the cluster is running:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

### 7. Fork the workshop repository

Fork the workshop repository to your own GitHub account by clicking the "Fork" button in the top right corner of the repository page.

> **Note**
> Docker image names cannot contain uppercase letters. If your GitHub username contains uppercase letters 
> this may cause problems in subsequent labs. If this is the case you must manually replace occurrences of 
> `${{ github.repository }}` with an all-lowercase hardcoded version in your workflows. Ask for help if you get stuck!

Go to your forked repository and enable GitHub Actions:

```
https://github.com/nais/<user>/actions
```

Clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:<user>/nais-workshop.git
```

### 8. Create a GitHub personal access token

Create a [new GitHub personal access
token](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new) with the following permissions:

- `write:packages`

Log in to GitHub Packages (ghcr.io) with your docker client:

```bash
echo "<token>" | docker login ghcr.io --username <user> --password-stdin
```

## Conclusion

You have now set up a local environment to run the workshop.

## Next

Proceed to [Lab 1](../lab-1/README.md) >
